# TodoListReact documentation
## Contents:
0. Program description
1. Host and deploy
2. Description of server side app
3. Description of client side app

## 0. Description of the software
  This _Single-page Application_ is a simple **Todo List** managing software, where the user on the clientside can view the  
  TodoList stored in the server database and can Add, Delete Todos or change their priority through the UI. The server sides responds to the  
  requests and stores the necessary items and changes in the database. The UI is dynamically updated through the clientside scripts.  
  The serverside was created with [ASP.NET Core 5.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/?view=aspnetcore-5.0), while the clientside was made with [React](https://reactjs.org/).

## 1. Host and deploy
  This is an ASP.NET Core 5.0 project, therefore deployment is done as described in the official Microsoft docs found at [the ASP.NET website.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/?view=aspnetcore-5.0)  
  **General summary:**
  Set the connection string to your database in the ... file. Create the database table with migration, then build the app and add it to the host application.

## 2. Description of server side app
### Summary:
  The backend handles _the database_ and _the http connections_. It waits for requests at the API endpoints and writes and reads the database as necessary.
### Structure of the project:
  _Program.cs_  
  The entry point of the program, starts the program by creating a webhost, configuring it with the Startup class.  
  _Startup.cs_  
  Basic configuration and service registration using dependency injection in the ... function. For this project the Controllers and SQL Server services have been added.  
  _Models folder:_   
  _TodoItem.cs_  
    The model file for the database and the controller, represents a list item in the todo list with the following properties:  
    -  id: the primary key generated by the database.  
    -  name: the name of the TodoItem  
    -  description: a short description of the item  
    -  deadline: the date by which the todo must be completed  
    -  status: the current status of the todo  
    -  prevId, nextId: the Ids for the previous and next TodoItem in the list, used to persist the priority of the item and help ordering them in the UI.  
  _Data folder:_  
	  _...Context.cs_  
	  This class inherits from ContextBase and represents access to the database. Contains the database table in a DbSet object.  
  _Migrations folder:_  
	  This folder will be created from your model classes for your database migrations, which you can create and run with the Add-Migration and Update-Database commands.  
	  The timestamped files represent the generated SQL commands for your database.  
  _Controllers folder:_  
	  This folder contains the API Controllers, in this project the ...Controller, which contains the API endpoints as actions (methods).  
	  _TodoItemsController.cs_  
	  Contains the API endpoints at  
		  -  /api/TodoItems  
			  request: GET, response: the server sends back all the stored TodoItems in JSON format.  
		  -  /api/TodoItems/{id}  
			request: GET, response: the server sends back the TodoItem that matches the id.  
		-  /api/TodoItems/{id}  
			request: PUT, response: the server updates the TodoItem with the matching id in the database.  
		-  /api/TodoItems  
			request: POST, response: the server adds the TodoItem from the request body to the database.  
		-  /api/TodoItems/{id}  
			request: DELETE, response: the server deletes the TodoItem with matching id from the database.  
	The clientside application connects to the backend through these endpoints, getting data from and sending data to the database with their help.  

## 3. Description of client side app
### Summary:
  The frontend renders the UI and handles the user interactions in the browser, communicating with the backend at the same time.
### Structure of the project:
  _index.js_
  The entry point of the frontend script, the UI is built here from the React.DOM in the render function.
  _App.js_
  The main component, renders the todo list from TodoItems and the AddTodo component and also contains the logic for handling them.
  _Components folder:_
	  _TodoItem.js_
	...
	  _AddTodo.js_
	...




